Bgrenon time travel assist page (#1593)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/time-travel-assist.md

---
title: Time Travel Assist
subtitle: Learn how to query point-in-time connections against your data's history
enableTableOfContents: true
---

> To help troubleshoot your data's history, Time Travel Assist lets you connect to any selected point in time within your history retention window and then run queries against that connection.

Reviewer: Maybe "To explore/query/view"?

You can use Time Travel Assist from two places in the Neon Console:

> - **SQL Editor** &#8212; Time Travel is built into the SQL editor letting you switch between queries of your current data and previous iterations of your data in the same view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SQL Editor** &#8212; Time Travel is built into the SQL Editor letting you switch between queries of your current data and previous iterations of your data in the same view.
```

- **Restore** &#8212; Time Travel Assist is also built into the Branch Restore flow where it can help you make sure you've targeted the correct restore point before you restore a branch.

## How Time Travel Assist works

> Time Travel Assist leverages Neon's instant branching capability to create a temporary branch and compute endpoint at the selected point in time, which is automatically removed once you are done querying against this point-in-time connection. The compute endpoints are ephemeral: they are not listed on the **Branches** page or in a CLI or API list branches request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time Travel Assist leverages Neon's instant branching capability to create a temporary branch and compute endpoint at the selected point in time, which are automatically removed once you are done querying against this point-in-time connection. The compute endpoints are ephemeral: they are not listed on the **Branches** page or in a CLI or API list branches request.
```

However, you can see the history of operations related to the creation and deletion of the ephemeral branch on the **Operations** page:

- start_compute
- create_branch
- delete_timeline
- suspend_compute

### How long do ephemeral endpoints remain active

The ephemeral endpoints are created according to your configured [default compute size](/docs/manage/projects#reset-the-default-compute-size). An ephemeral endpoint remains active for as long as you keep running queries against it. After 10 seconds of inactivity, the timeline is deleted and the endpoint is removed.

### History retention

> You are only able to run Time Travel queries that fall within your history retention window, which starts at 24 hours for Free Tier users and up to 30 days for Scale plan users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are only able to run Time Travel queries that fall within your history retention window, which starts at 24 hours for Free Tier users, up to 7 days for Launch plan users, and up to 30 days for Scale plan users.
```

> You are unable to select a time outside your current retention window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot select a time outside your current retention window.
```

You can use this feature to help with scenarios like:

- Investigating anomolies
- Assessing the impact of new features
- Troubleshooting
- Compliance auditing

Here's an example of a completed Time Travel query.

![time travel from sql editor](/docs/guides/time_travel_sql.png)

### Time Travel Assist with Branch Restore

Time Travel Assist is also available from the **Restore** page, as part of the [Branch Restore](/docs/guides/branch-restore) feature. Before completing a restore operation, it's a good idea to use Time Travel Assist to verify that you've targetted the correct restore point.

An SQL editor is built into the **Restore** page for this purpose. When you make your branch and timestamp selection to restore a branch, this selection can also be used as the point-in-time connection to query against.

Here is an example of a completed query:

![Time travel assist](/docs/guides/time_travel_assist.png)

## How to use Time Travel Assist

> Here is how to use the Time Travel Assist from both the **SQL Editor** and from the **Restore** page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how to use Time Travel Assist from both the **SQL Editor** and from the **Restore** page:
```
